feat(genapi): init docs (#3636)
scaleway/docs-content: ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/query-embedding-models.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to query embedding models
  description: Learn how to interact with embedding models using Scaleway's Generative APIs service.
content:
  h1: How to query embedding models
  paragraph: Learn how to interact with embedding models using Scaleway's Generative APIs service.
tags: generative-apis ai-data embedding-models
dates:
  validation: 2024-08-28
  posted: 2024-08-28
---

Scaleway's Generative APIs service allows users to interact with embedding models hosted on the platform.
The embedding API provides a simple interface for generating vector representations (embeddings) based on your input data. 
The embedding service is OpenAI compatible. Refer to OpenAI's [embedding documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/embeddings) for more detailed information. 

> <Macro id=" requirements"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Macro id="requirements" />
```

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

> - A valid [API key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) (Necessary for API authentication)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A valid [API key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) for API authentication
```

> - Python 3.7+ installed on your system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Python 3.7+ installed on your system
```

## Querying embedding models via API

The embedding model inputs text and outputs a vector (list) of floating point numbers to use for tasks like similarity comparisons and search.

> Let's query the model programmatically using the OpenAI SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The instructions below show you how to query the model programmatically using the OpenAI SDK.
```

### Installing the OpenAI SDK

First, ensure you have the OpenAI SDK installed in your development environment. You can install it using pip:

```bash
pip install openai
```

### Initializing the client

Initialize the OpenAI client with your base URL and API key:

```python
from openai import OpenAI

# Initialize the client with your base URL and API key
client = OpenAI(
    base_url="https://api.scaleway.ai/v1",  # Scaleway's Generative APIs service URL
    api_key="<SCW_API_KEY>"  # Your unique API key from Scaleway
)
```

### Generating embeddings with sentence-T5-XXL

> You can now generate embeddings using the `sentence-T5-XXL` model. Following is an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now generate embeddings using the `sentence-T5-XXL` model, such as the following example:
```
